So, the Java Array is a useful data structure,
but it comes with limited methods for manipulating the data.
So hence, manipulating arrays usually includes utilising
the java.util.Arrays utility class,
which I'll describe in more detail in the next video.
For our first example, in this video,
I'll demonstrate using the array length attribute,
accessing elements and changing elements
in a single dimensional array.
And also I go over the java.util.Arrays class,
we will be using the arrays utility class static method
to string to print the array contents
in a comment delimited string to the output.
Alright, so I've got a new project to find here in Arrays.
I'mma going to create the first class for that project.
I'mma call this one Arrays First Example.
(typing)
All right, so this Code,
you can see on screen firstly declares an array event
and also declares an array of integer
and then prints both using arrays to
string the static method to demonstrate that array values,
even ones in local variable arrays
are set to default values.
Next, moving down the list there,
I'm demonstrating setting values to individual
members of arrays,
and then also retrieving values of
individual members arrays.
So, that's the code we're going to run this code now.
(mouse clicks)
So, there's the app put on the screen demonstrating that
the array of integer wrapper objects was each set to know
and another instantiated integer objects
with a value of zero.
And you can see the our initial values there,
default values for an interest well,
and the values after the loop and final values.
Right, so let's see what happens now when we
create new array references and assign
the current array references to them.
So, got some current and I'll paste in the end.
(keyboard clanking)
Okay, so there's the code.
So, if you scroll back up to the code that I pasted in,
you can see it starts there,
the code I pasted in starts on line 51.
So, I can see that we're creating a new intArray,
intArray two, and assigning it to intArray,
and also a new integer array, integer array two,
that we're assigning to integer array.
So, after signing it as we scroll down and
have a look there,
instead, we're printing it out, and then
we're making some changes to the first array
to see what actually happens.
Right, let's run...
(mouse clicking)
this crop so you can see all the final output.
So, this demonstrates that a change to an
element referenced by one array,
is reflected when the second array is printed,
since both array variables are referencing
the same set of objects.
Alright, so in the next video,
we'll talk about the ways to manipulate array data
and examine the Java.util.arrays class more closely,
similarly to what we did with the string class,
classifying the methods and focusing on some
of the ones which might not be
part of your daily programming diet.
See you in the next video.